one birth has marrieds to break this
long obligation to return repeatedly to
land to feed its chicken it's called the
ancient murrelet and it doesn't feed its
chick on them at all
the only place it nests are on islands
around the northern rim of the Pacific
like Canada's Queen Charlotte Islands
where I am now and only time you're
likely to see it is at night this is one
of the nest holes the chicks when
they're only two days old make one of
the most astonishing journey is made by
any chicks
the parents come back from the sea at
night and crouching on the ground core
to their newly hatched Diaz in response
the chicks come out of their holes
running there are large aggressive mice
that will catch them if they get the
chance Ravens and Eagles are also active
during these light nights the chicks are
in real danger so they run and run fast
their parents have gone ahead of them
and are now calling from the sea by
midnight there are young chicks swarming
all over the forest rock
most of them managed to get to the beach
within ten minutes of leaving their
holes
but their parents are not here they've
gone farther out just beyond the
breakers and they're still cool
the chicks can stop they keep pedaling
like little clockwork toys and the same
movements that propelled them across to
brown now take them out to sea
in some miraculous way each chick
recognizes the sound of its parents
voice
you know knitted the little families
leave the land the lits dangers and sail
away into the relative safety of the
open ocean the chicks are still only a
few hours old the ancient murrelet must
be the most truly oceanic of all births